Algorhythm
==============
Corey Sobel & Thomas Klein

Overview:
This program generates improvised jazz solos. It uses music21 (http://web.mit.edu/music21/) as the main library
for processing and building music. The idea is to take in a harmony and melody (i.e. a lead sheet) and output a solo. Currently we have hard coded sample harmony and melodies as music21 objects for testing. This program takes 2 independent approaches: melody based and harmony based improvisation

Melody based improvisation:
Here we use snippets from the input melody.  Song snippets are selected based on the spacing of harmony chords from the original song, which are also present in the generated solo.  The algorithm attempts to pick a song snippet which aligns nicely with the chords; for each chord, a song snippet is selected which extends from the duration of that chord to the next.  The song snippet is selected based on a few criteria; for instance, the first note of the song snippet are selected to be in the same pitch class as the chord, or as close to the pitch of the chord as possible.  The song snippet may also be transposed up and down to better match the scale, or a previously played snippet can be repeated as a motif.

Harmony based improvisation:
Our approach here was to build a solo exclusively using the chords and key of the song.
We split the song into phrases. For each phrase we compute a rhythm by going 2 beats at a time and randomly choosing from a variety of 2 beat rhythms. Then we pick a stream of pitches to go with the rhythm using a simple random algorithm. The algorithm decides if the solo should move up or down (in pitch) and if it should chose the next note from the chord, the scale of the key, or as an accidental (one semitone above or below the previous note). There are also plans to recycle elements of the solo to create motifs, but this is not yet implemented.

Our current solo is generated by first playing a melody based line, then a harmony based one. This approach works pretty well.

See instructions.txt for instructions on how to run it
